Now we only want to use our use affect in our components that have lifecycle methods at least as far
as our application is concerned.
So the first one we know that we have is our component didn't mount in our app component and this is
pretty good because we're actually only leveraging the one component did mount method inside of this
classmate.
It seems a little unnecessary to use a class component for just a simple component at mount.
So what we can do is replace it with our use effective method.
So first we convert our class right over to a functional component
we just got to make sure as well that we d structure off all the right props
and now we don't need this component did mount method anymore.
We can use our use fact
now before we actually write the effect.
Let's just update our render as well so that we're not calling it.
We also see that we pass in current user.
So let's just definitely update that as well.
2 D structure
and as far as our effect goes we need to call check user session so here we can just invoke it but we
only want it the first time when we actually pass it in so what we can do if we don't want it to fire
whenever current user updates is we can pass in an empty array now the thing is that we'll see that
we have this warning that says use effect has a missing dependency of check.
User session.
So we should either include it or remove it from this dependency array because of check user session
changes too often our parent component that defines it will possibly re render this whole component
so the idea is that if there was a parent to this component whenever Czech user session changes right
when it gets rendered it's possible that we would essentially end up re rendering this component and
firing off our effect more than we needed to here's the thing.
Let's say we don't do this.
Let's say we don't pass the array what will happen is that when our component mounts we see that we're
still calling our check user session.
We can't assign and success because of course our check user session will say that we're still logged
in and then will resign in getting our persistence effect that we just set up in our saga.
If you remember from a couple lessons ago but you'll see that we fire our check user session again and
this of course is because our component re rendered because current user got updated.
Right when we signed it so what we can do in order to alleviate this just because of the nature of how
this component is being rendered is we can pass this check user session in into our dependency array
which is perfectly fine.
The reason we do this is because check use our session is a property function that is being passed in
from our map dispatch the props.
Now if this was say a property that we were passing in from a parent component we would actually do
something different but we're going to tackle that in another lesson.
Right now it's not relevant to this app because there's no component higher than our app component and
check user session is being passed in from that dispatch to props.
So of course we can do that and talk about that in another lesson because it is an important thing to
talk about but right now this is equivalent.
Right.
This is this is working because we know check user session is not going to change this function technically
doesn't need to update we can simply just pass it in.
And now this behaves like a component did mount and we'll see that after signing success.
We do not fire are check user another time so we also see that we have our header component no longer
uses off so we can update that as well.
So let's get rid of this off dependency and let's update any other components where we're using components
at map with our new use effect method.
So here we can see our shop page is very similar to what we have with our app component so here.
Let's import in our use effect method
and let's update this
into a functional component.
Let's make sure that we delete or render
and here we see that we get our matched right which we do structure props as well as fetch collections
start.
So now we just simply call our use effect
and we just call fetch collection start.
This is actually a good time for us to talk about how use effect will get triggered right as well as
re render cycles because that's one of the big caveats with the use effect is how it fires and when
we want it to fire right because it might cause us some side effects that we don't want when we talk
about rendering cycles in our components.
We know that our shop page will only read render if either our props change or if we called that state
inside.
If we use the use state hook or if the parent of this component which is our adult J J.S. ends up calling
its own re render and the only time we know that will happen is if current user updates.
Now if we do not listen for that kind of change we will actually end up calling use affect twice.
So let me show you what happens if we do not pass in our array if we're on our short page.
We know that what happens is that when our component mounts for the first time it fires off the first
fetch collection started.
But let's say after our component mounts our app also fires check user session.
Right.
Which checks if there is an existing session for our user.
If there is it signs in the cur a new user current user gets passed in and then we re render our app
component this render will in turn trigger our shot Page component to also re render which will also
now in turn trigger a use effect again causing us to call fetch collection start twice.
So if we refresh we'll see we called fetch collections start and you see how we flicker it again after
check user session.
Well this is because we ended up calling sign and success which ends up calling fetch collections start
again so that's what happens because our components mount right our shop page mounts for the first time
as well as our app component.
This triggers our use effect to call for fetch collections start the first time right here or check
current user session gets fired which in turn will then trigger a check against our fire based store
to see if there is a session at this point our fetch collections success which is our initial fetch
collections start call comes back succeeds renders our page well then after our check user session comes
back with a success saying there is a session which then triggers our sign and success saga.
This will in turn re render our app component because current user has now different which reach triggers
that render here re triggering a rendering of our shot page which in turn will re trigger our use effect
because use effect will fire whenever we render is called
as a result we'll see fetch collection start get fired again and then we see that double flicker effect
right flickers once and then it flickers twice so we don't want this to happen.
So what we can do is of course we can pass this empty array and here we can say only if such collections
start change.
So now we see we don't get that effect.
Why is that.
Well the reason for this is because normally we would just pass in an empty array.
It does the same thing but we will get this warning.
And the reason is because our function being passed in is a prop but we do know that this prompt will
not change because we're getting it from our map dispatch the props.
So if we know that this is not going to re render while then I mean we simply do it to avoid that warning
message otherwise right we're just not going to far use affect more than one time.
This is just the caveat with the fact that we're passing in methods from a dispatch from redux into
our component and we're calling in our use effect right the use effect is not aware that this is not
coming from our connect function.
It simply thinks that it's we're getting a prop that we're calling inside of use effect.
So we just gotta be aware that in case that function changes right use effect just wants us to know
that this is a dependency it doesn't want us to have an old stale version of the prop and I know it
sounds rather complicated but this will make more sense the more you actually encounter use effect.
Right.
It's just one of those caveats of use effect.
But for our case right.
We simply want to use it like a component did mount so we have no problem passing the collection start
and now again we won't end up with that double render because we are no longer listening for use effect
to trigger even if our render happens.
So this doesn't stop our rerun or cycle on our shot Page from happening when current user updates app
again.
We're just simply saying we just don't want to fire use effect again.
That's the only thing what we're doing with this second parameter so hopefully that made sense.
I know it's complicated and I know use effect is a little bit weird like that but this is the main thing
about use effect integrating it into an existing redux application that is using dispatch.
We simply just have to make sure that we wrap our fetch collection start right inside of this array
as the second parameter if we plan to call it inside of our use effect as a component amount.
All in all a pretty easy change to switch over our application to using the use state and use effect
hooks.
Now there is one more way that we can use the use effect took to mimic our component will unmatched
lifecycle method but we don't really need to do it inside of any of our components but in the next lesson
I will show you how we can do it if we needed to leverage that lifecycle method as well so I'll see
you in the next lesson.